Welcome back.
In this video we're going to talk about some use cases for closure before we start looking at some use
cases.
Let's quickly go back and redefine what closure is.
We said the closure exists when an inner function makes use of variables defined in an outer function
that has returned.
We also saw that if the inner function does not use those outer variables it does not have access to
that.
So one might want to use closure.
What are the most common use cases of closure is to create the concept of a private variable the private
variable is a variable that can only be accessed in a certain scope and not modified from an external
scope.
Let's see what we mean by that.
Let's create a function called counter and inside of this function we're going to create a variable
called Count and assign it to the values zero on the next line.
We're going to return a function inside of that called Inner and inside of the inner function or increment
the count by 1 Using count plus plus and then return the count variable.
Notice here that we're making use of closure because the count variable is defined in the counter function
which has returned by the time the inner function makes use of it.
Now let's create a variable called counter 1 and assign it to be the result of the counter function.
If we take a look at the counter one variable we will see it is a function definition so let's invoke
counter 1.
Now we should get back the number one since our counter has gone up by 1.
Let's do it again and we should get two back.
Now what happens if we make another variable called counter 2 and assign it to the counter function
being invoked let's invoke our counter to function and we get one back.
Our counter to variable does not modify our counter one variable since each of these functions has its
own private count variable and if we try to access the count variable from the scope that we're in we
will get a reference for what we've done here is use closure to create the concept of a private variable.
Try this out in the Crome Council and see what values you get back.
Now let's take a look at another example of how we can use closure by returning functions in an object.
Let's make a function called classroom and inside create a variable called instructors which will be
an array of two strings L.E. and code will then return an object with a method called Get instructors
which will return the instructor's array and a method called an instructor which accepts a parameter
and adds that parameter to the instructors array will then return the array of instructress.
Now let's create a variable called Course 1 and invoke the classroom function.
If we look at course one will see an object with two methods.
Get instructors and an instructor.
If we invoke get instructors we will see an array with Ali and code.
Now let's add net using add instructor and we'll see if we get back to the array of instructors.
Let's also add Tim we're using a variable called instructors inside of the Get instructors and an instructor
function at that variable is defined in the classroom function which returned a long time ago.
So how did the get instructors and an instructor function still have access to this variable.
The answer is through closure.
Let's make another Archibold called course to and assign it to the classroom function being invoked.
We'll see that even if we try to add an instructors of course to it will not change the instructors
in course one.
So it looks like you're stuck with us.
You know there's actually a small gotcha with this code that we have.
There is a way to directly manipulate the instructors variable.
Maybe you spotted this but if we were to directly remove a value from the output of get instructors
we could actually modify the instructors array.
What I'll do here is pop from the result of get instructors.
And if I call get instructors again will see that I have actually removed values from the array.
So how can we prevent this.
When you start learning about functional programming and working with libraries like react and redux
you'll be introduced to a concept called immutability which means that you cannot change the value of
something to create that idea or return a copy of the instructor's array and not the actual array that
someone could accidentally or even intentionally manipulate in order to do that.
We will invoke the slice method on our output so that we return a copy of the instructor's array which
will stop someone from externally modifying our instr. variable.
Now this variable is completely private in the next video we'll recap what we've learned and then practice
with some closures exercises.
Ze'ev they're.